>> Speaker 1: So
to implement time travel with this,
could we just use the replay operator?
>> Jafar Husain: You wouldn't
use replay for that.
What you would do is, so
from a time travel perspective,
the easiest thing to do
might be to just kick off.
So there's a variety of things you can do.
You can store the previous actions,
you can store all the previous states in
an array, and then you can just
[SOUND] hoop to those states, right.
I believe that's how time
trouble works in Redux.
It just store all the previous, the key,
the secret sauce, is that if you notice
here I'm not changing the state,
I'm creating a new state.
I'm not modifying
the counter on last state,
I'm creating a whole new state object.
And because of that what Redux can do is
it can literally store every possible
state object that's ever been generated
by your app, memory allowing,
right, and then it can just [SOUND]
pop to any part in history and time.
And that's one of the cool
things about Redux.
So that's what he means
when he says time travel.
Cuz you never end up modifying state,
you've always preserved
all the old states.
In debug mode, Redux can just
store all your old states and
just [SOUND] hop to them.
>> Jafar Husain: Any other questions?
>> Speaker 1: On the chat,
someone asked about if you could give
a note about RxJS scheduler class?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, the scheduler.
So a scheduler is a function that
decides when data, when code runs.
So in general you're not gonna be using
schedulers directly for the most part.
There are two functions that you use,
that typically you use with,
to schedule things.
So what do I mean when I
say decides when code runs?
Well let's say I'm making an animation,
for
example, right, and
I wanna make sure that the animation is,
I basically only wanna do things
on request animation frame.
Does that make sense?
Right, so there's two things
you can do to an observable,
rather two times you can schedule
something happening with an observable.
So I can take an observable, you know
what, what the heck, let's write it.
>> Jafar Husain: There's
two interesting methods.
One is observeOn(scheduler) and
SubscribeOn.
So there's two times things
happen with an observable.
One is when you subscribe.
So if you subscribe to an observable,
one thing that can happen is that
that subscription happens right away.
You can also schedule
a subscription to occur.
So when I say schedule I mean, let's say I
don't want the subscription to occur for
500 milliseconds.
In other words, I want a set time out and
then actually cause
the subscription to occur.
That's when I can use a scheduler and
I can call subscribe on.
The other thing that I can do is when I
get a notification, an ie next complete
an error, rather than getting them
as soon as the producer sends them.
I can say, you know what,
schedule these notifications so
they don't happen, say, until
the next tick or on the set time out.
Does that make sense?
So those are two times where
you can introduce concurrency,
basically decide when you get
called inside of a function.
So let's see how observeOn would work.
>> Jafar Husain: So
you call observeOn on an observable.
>> Jafar Husain: So we have this
observable, and whenever the observable
sends a message to us, instead of
forwarding it on to the observer,
we're actually gonna
schedule it to happen later.
So I'm gonna go, it's the same
thing we've been doing up till now,
I'm gonna subscribe to self.
>> Jafar Husain: So if we just do this
we would be accomplishing nothing,
we'd just be sending
the observer the next method.
>> Jafar Husain: By the way,
a scheduler is nothing fancy,
it is literally just like
a subscription or an observable.
It's a function that's been
wrapped up to look like an object.
Does that make sense?
So it's just a function you call.
The scheduler I'll use in this
will literally just be a function.
It's a little more complicated in RxJS,
but the basic idea is here.
>> Jafar Husain: All right, so
if we did this we basically no opt, right.
All I'm doing is I'm just
forwarding stuff along.
But if I do this,
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
now does anybody kinda get
a sense of what a scheduler does?
Let's see if we can use
observeOn to ensure that
an observable doesn't call us for
a few seconds.
>> Jafar Husain: So I'm gonna create,
see, you know what, we never implemented
the simplest constructor for
an observer, which is just of.
Do that real quick cuz it will be easier.
So remember of just takes a value,
it actually takes multiple values, but for
this purpose for me to keep things simple.
>> Jafar Husain: And
it's just gonna turn around and
next that value to the observer.
>> Jafar Husain: Now notice I'm just gonna
no op in the unsubscribe here because I've
already delivered the two values before
I've even handed in the subscription.
And that's one thing to understand,
that observable can be synchronous,
it just it doesn't always
mean it's asynchronous.
It's always about push,
it's not about asynchrony.
>> Jafar Husain: When you're pushing in
Java script, because it's single threaded,
you can be asynchronous if you want to,
but
you can also just do
everything synchronously.
So I can fire hose data at somebody when
they subscribe as soon as they subscribe.
So now that I've built myself
a static factory function for
an observable that just
onNext an individual value,
let's see what happens
when we subscribe to that.
>> Jafar Husain: Did I call next,
or complete?
Does anybody remember?
>> Speaker 1: Did an of.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Yes.
>> Jafar Husain: Great.
>> Speaker 1: But on line 81,
it said subscribe instead of unsubscribe.
>> Jafar Husain: Line 81?
Thank you.
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
everybody understands and expects that?
But let's say I don't wanna get
this message for five seconds.
>> Jafar Husain: Try and
get that on one line.
>> Jafar Husain: So
I've passed in a scheduler,
and as we can see a scheduler's just
a glorified function that accepts some
action, and
then executes it probably later on, right.
In this case I'm just gonna
execute it in five seconds.
And so if we run,
>> Jafar Husain: Should have picked
a shorter time,
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
all I did was instead of doing
the thing I wanted to do,
I created a function which will
do the thing I wanted to do,
and then I handed it to a scheduler,
which is nothing but
a function that accepts an action, and
then the scheduler decides when it runs.
I'm not gonna bother defining subscribeOn,
you guys kinda get the gist of it.
The idea there is that you
provide a scheduler that, and
then you basically provide the logic
behind subscribe inside of a function.
You hand it to the scheduler and the
scheduler decides when subscribe applies.
Why would I wanna use this?
Well I'd want to use it if I wanted to
make sure that certain actions happened at
certain times.
A great example might be something
like request animation frame.
So if I wanted to make sure that an action
happened on request animation frame,
that I would say only wrote to
the canvas on request animation frame.
I could observe an observable on a request
animation frame scheduler, and then I'm
basically gonna wait to update the canvas
until request animation frame is called.
Does that make sense?
>> Jafar Husain: And that's 90% of what
you need to understand about schedulers.
They're a little bit more complicated than
an object with a couple more methods,
but that's the basic idea.